README.md, before:

Truchas
==============================================================================
Truchas is open source software developed by Los Alamos National Laboratory
(LANL) and collaborators for physics-based modeling and simulation of
manufacturing processes. Its core capabilities are primarily geared toward
metal casting, with developing capabilities for metal additive manufacturing.
It is, however, a general multi-physics computational tool that is useful for
a wider range of applications.

Truchas includes coupled physics models for incompressible multi-material flow
with interface tracking, heat transfer, phase change, view factor thermal
radiation, species advection-diffusion, elastic/plastic mechanics with contact,
and electromagnetics.  It uses conventional 3-D unstructured finite element
computational meshes composed of mixed element types, and employs finite volume,
finite element, and mimetic finite difference discretizations.

License
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Truchas is made available under the 3-clause BSD license.
See [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for details.

Resources
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* The Truchas website https://www.truchas.org has links to documentation,
  binary packages, and other materials.
* The official Truchas source repository is https://gitlab.com/truchas/truchas
* Use the [issue tracker][3] to submit bug reports and feature suggestions.
* Mailing list: https://groups.io/g/truchas
* Chat with us on Zulip: [![project chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/zulip-join_chat-brightgreen.svg)](https://truchas.zulipchat.com/)

[2]: https://gitlab.com/truchas/truchas
[3]: https://gitlab.com/truchas/truchas/issues

News (updated 2021-05-03)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See [NEWS.md](NEWS.md) for important changes since the last release.

Building Truchas (updated 2021-05-28)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See [BUILDING.md](BUILDING.md) for instructions on compiling and testing
Truchas.

Commit message:

Add documentation for using spack

README.md, after:

Truchas
==============================================================================
Truchas is open source software developed by Los Alamos National Laboratory
(LANL) and collaborators for physics-based modeling and simulation of
manufacturing processes. Its core capabilities are primarily geared toward
metal casting, with developing capabilities for metal additive manufacturing.
It is, however, a general multi-physics computational tool that is useful for
a wider range of applications.

Truchas includes coupled physics models for incompressible multi-material flow
with interface tracking, heat transfer, phase change, view factor thermal
radiation, species advection-diffusion, elastic/plastic mechanics with contact,
and electromagnetics.  It uses conventional 3-D unstructured finite element
computational meshes composed of mixed element types, and employs finite volume,
finite element, and mimetic finite difference discretizations.

License
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Truchas is made available under the 3-clause BSD license.
See [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for details.

Resources
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* The Truchas website https://www.truchas.org has links to documentation,
  binary packages, and other materials.
* The official Truchas source repository is https://gitlab.com/truchas/truchas
* Use the [issue tracker][3] to submit bug reports and feature suggestions.
* Mailing list: https://groups.io/g/truchas
* Chat with us on Zulip: [![project chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/zulip-join_chat-brightgreen.svg)](https://truchas.zulipchat.com/)

[2]: https://gitlab.com/truchas/truchas
[3]: https://gitlab.com/truchas/truchas/issues

News (updated 2021-05-03)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See [NEWS.md](NEWS.md) for important changes since the last release.

Building Truchas (updated 2021-05-28)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See [BUILDING.md](BUILDING.md) for instructions on compiling and testing
Truchas.  See [SPACK.md](SPACK.md) for instructions on using spack to build Truchas
